All right people.
Next topic is extremely important because you will practice it daily.
The name of the topic will be CSX box model and since it is so important we will get some visual help.
And by the way if you are falling asleep.
Get up.
You don't want to miss it.
So see it says Box model.
Now like I said we're all going to be getting some visual help so we're all going to head over to bronzer
and within the browser which is going to types yes us Box model.
And then instead of looking for the text I'm going to be looking for the images I'm gonna pick this
image.
You can pick any image that you like because pretty much there can explain the same things that I'm
going to be talking about.
Now I'm going to click on the image and now let's get over what's happening here.
You see every time that we're working with us each and every element is going to be displayed as a box
now within that box.
You're going to be dealing with three properties bearing That's that great distance between the content
you have in your element and the hedge.
Oh here there and we're gonna have the border.
That's gonna go around the element and then we're looking for the margin that's going to be the distance
between let's say either at the edges of the screen or some other element.
Now as always the best way is to practice with these properties.
I'm gonna head over back to our document but I will gonna be switching back and forth because I think
at some point maybe we're all gonna need some help here again with an image and actually looking at
this visually might help us a little bit.
Now back to the document.
I know it might be annoying to some of you but I will going to delete this.
I'm going to say blah blah blah.
I would like to select everything here.
We welcome to delete this.
So once we delete it we're going to head over to NSA Schimmel and also we're going to do a little bit
of spring cleaning since it takes like 30 seconds.
I don't think you should be that annoyed by that.
Now within the body what we're gonna have.
I don't know.
We can start by hitting one and you know what.
Maybe let's make this a little bit smaller because I think it's gonna be easier for us.
And here let's write some Hello.
I would like to learn about it says Box model and let's add maybe some exclamation mark now that is
gonna be marrying one nugget.
So far so good.
What about the paragraph.
I don't know let's add Laura I'm 20 so there's gonna be a paragraph with some text of 20 words.
So far so good.
We're gonna head over back to the styles we still have our comment.
Now let's start working.
We had the famous CEO says Box model first let's start with having one and we're gonna add simply a
color or you know what.
Let's add background color.
That's just gonna make a little bit more sense.
And for the background we're gonna do a very pretty one which is gonna be red.
OK.
So far so good.
Then we also have the paragraph and the paragraph is gonna be background and let's say blue.
So we have to Ellen now.
Like I said we all gonna have to start working with our box model within the box model what do we have.
I believe we have the padding and that was one of the properties that was available to us.
So if I'm going to head over back and I'm gonna say for the heading What I'm going to be looking for
the padding and then notice I have a bunch of options here.
Well let's start with the most basic.
You're going to have padding top.
Now what is going to be in the padding that we can use any kind of values we already covered.
As this unit.
So we should be very comfortable with let's say I don't know 30 pixels.
So what do you think is gonna happen right now as I'm looking at my text and the edge of my element.
Right now I'm getting this padding in between.
Does that reflect what we see in the picture.
So we have the padding that's gonna be around the content within the element.
In this case we just add it to the top.
Okay let's start out let's say padding is gonna be also on the bottom.
What's happening bottom.
And let's also do three picks.
And we have right now the padding in between where the text ends.
And again the edge of our element now maybe let's increase it and get really creative and let's say
this is gonna be 60.
So now I'm getting my padding with 60.
I also can do padding left.
Right write padding left.
And in this case you know what let's do.
I don't know twenty five pixels getting doesn't really matter.
Now my text is being pushed here on the left hand side.
I'm getting my padding as well as we are.
They have padding right since we are covering pretty much top bottom left.
We can also do right now within the right.
I don't know how we can do 50 pixels.
So now I'm pushing my padding here from my right.
So this is how we can write with the padding the long way.
However in the C assess we're going to have bunch of shortcuts.
And now we can look at it how we can create these shortcuts with the padding so for this case we're
going to use the program.
So instead of writing each and every time putting top bottom putting left right we can write padding
and then we need to start working with the values now right away I can tell you that this is gonna work
exactly the same with the margin that we're going to look at the next video and there's also gonna be
shortcuts for the border.
So just as a side note now for the batting first I have an option of using the same padding all around.
Now why do I use the same word now because if I'm going to write 50 pixels notice what's gonna happen
with my batting.
So I'm going to be getting the exact same padding all around.
So if you know that you want exactly the same padding just down the number and then you're gonna be
getting the value.
So everything is going to be working fine.
Now since I want to test out a few more options for my shortcuts I would like to first of all comment
this out just so you can see that this is still valuable.
But I would like to see you show you other options.
Now the other option is using two values the top bottom and left and right.
So how is that gonna work.
I'm gonna say batting then the first value is going to be top bottom and you know what.
Let me just first say it.
Notice right now it's basically complaining and saying while you have a syntax error you haven't added
any value but the padding basically goes back to zero ultimately.
And in my case I'm going to say the first value the top bottom is going to be three pixels and left
and right we're gonna have 60 pixels.
Now what happens right.
So I have the padding on the top three pixels bottom is also going to be 30 pixels and left and right
there's gonna be 60 pixels so quite predictable.
Okay.
So far so good.
Again let's do the same thing.
Let's comment this out.
We know that this is gonna be valuable option but we also have an option of checking each and every
value.
Now how is that gonna work.
Well we're gonna write panning and now I can start looking by the first value is gonna be the top the
next value is gonna be right hand side.
The third value is going to be the bottom and then the fourth value would be the left hand side.
All right we're here.
Let's test it out.
Let's say 20 pixels on a top then let's say 40 pixels on the right hand side 60 pixels on the bottom
and then let's do I don't know 80 pixels or you know what 10 pixels on the left hand side.
Now what do we have here I have 20 pixels predictably on the top then I have 40 here then 60 over here
and the time is gonna be all the way on left hand side.
Please keep in mind all of them are valid or you would need to pick whatever value you would like to
use for the property.
What are you going to write that there's gonna be partying all around whether there's going to be padding
left and right and top and bottom Morial gonna be single handedly working with each and every dimension
top right left and the bottom.
And again just to cover the basics the padding is gonna be different in between or spacing in between
the content.
You have an element and the edge of an element and we can have more options that would be top right
bottom and the left.